First, let's look at the version without many, MVCs added.
Here we are in an empty unity project where I've added the mini MVCs framework as well as the samples.
Here's the folder structure for the Rollerball game without many since we've looked at the folder structure
of other samples before.
Let's jump right in.
First, let's run the scene and see how it plays.
The UI updates showing I have zero score and that the instructions are to use the arrow keys.
I also have a restart button I can click.
I'll use the four arrow keys here to move the ball around.
Now, you may not be able to hear it in the video, but it's playing a noise each time I collect one
of these pickups, as well as reflecting it in the updated UI score, the status changed to you win.
So the game is over and I can no longer input.
I can no longer input with the keys, but I'll click the restart button.
The restart button shows a prompt here which I can cancel.
Or I can confirm.
Confirming restarts the game as if I hadn't played yet and I can play again.
That's it.
Here we are in the example script.
As with the other examples, the high level example script extends mono behavior.
This way it can sit on a game object in the scene.
We have three serialized fields here so that this example can reach out into the scene and access a
game object for the player, a game object for the UI and a list of all the pickup objects in the scene.
We maintain some high level state for.
Is the game currently over?
Is the game currently paused and some other scoring values?
And some other scoring values in the start method.
We listen from here in the main game script into the UI in the player for some key events here in the
update, which executes every frame as long as the scene is running, we have our core game loop.
If at any time the game is over or we're paused, we exit out of the loop so nothing else happens.
It's this script that we're in here that has control of the pickups.
It loops through all the pickups and calls rotate on them to give them that cosmetic rotation.
The reason that it's done here and not inside the pickup, for example, is just so that when the game
pauses, we have the pickups pausing as well.
And finally here from the game scope, we capture user input and we pass it along the player so that
the ball can roll around here.
In the load method, we load from a local text file to get the maximum number of points required to
win.
It loads the number three as we've seen with previous demos, this is an example, just as an excuse
to use the service layer.
Once we look at the mini MVC version.
So of course this value could be hardcoded here, but instead we load it from a script just as an example
of external data.
Periodically, when the game here wants to update the on screen UI, we can call this method any time
that the UI button for restarting is clicked, this method is executed.
We pause the game, instantiate an on screen dialog window that floats over the rest of the game, Handle
the consequence If the user clicks, cancel in the dialog and handle the consequence.
If the user confirms to restart the game each time the player collides with the pickup.
This method is called the pickup object is turned invisible and a sound is played.
The score counts up from 0 to 1 to 2 to 3, and then when it reaches the required max value, which
typically is three, then the game is over and you win.
That's it for the core game logic.
Let's look at the scene hierarchy.
So in the scene hierarchy here, if I select the game example itself, we see some serialized fields
in the inspector, including a reference to the player, the UI, and each pickup in the scene.
The player is here with the player script, the UI is here with the UI script, and each of our pickups
is stored here all under the same parent game object.
Each has a pickup script on top.
Let's take a final look at the game running again so I can press play.
I can wander around here.
Notice that the pickups are rotating.
And if I click the restart button while the prompt is up here, while this dialog window is showing,
the cubes are not rotating, It's a small visual detail, but it clues in that this game is able to
save the state of when we're currently paused as well as when the game is over.
Watch when I win the pickup, stop rotating as well.
I've one and the pickup stop rotating managing state like is game over and is game paused seem like
little details but having them smoothly orchestrated throughout the concerns as we see here demonstrates
a good and simple game design.